---
title: AWS Glue overview
author: thedarkside
date: 2019-11-15 00:00:00 +0100
categories: [AWS]
tags: [AWS]
---

AWS Glue is a tool for performing **ETL (extract, transform, and load)** operations on an underlying data lake. It provides structure to unstructured S3 data chunks and acts as a central metadata repository. It is able to discover schemas and table definitions of the contents of S3 files (like CSV, JSON, and more) and change the structure of this data so that it can be used by other tools and services, like Amazon Redshift, Amazon Athena, or Amazon EMR.

One of the main components of Glue is the **AWS Glue Crawler**. Its job is to scan the data (either according to a schedule or on demand) and automatically infer the schema. While scanning S3 data lakes, it also populates the so-called **Glue Data Catalog** – a central metadata repository. This repository holds information such as column names or their data types.

When we select a data source and data target, the Python or Scala code (since Glue runs on Apache Spark) is automatically generated. Its task is to extract data from the source, transform it to match the target schema, and load it into the target structure. This code can easily be edited, debugged, and tested.

### Choosing smart S3 directory structure

Glue Crawler extracts partitions according to how the data is organized in S3 buckets. This is crucial when analyzing the performance and efficiency of Glue operations. 

When designing the S3 directory structure, it's important to take into account how the data will be queried later on. For example, if you're going to analyze weather data from five different measuring devices, and you want to query it based on a time range, it would be good to set the folder structure like `year > month > day > hour`. This way, when you want to extract all data for a particular day, the queries that search through these buckets will work more efficiently. If you would like to choose data from a particular device first and then look for a specific time range, the device should be on the top of the structure like `device > year > month > day > hour`.

### Glue ETL

Glue can automatically generate code if you define transformations you want to apply to data. If there are any errors in the ETL jobs, they will be reported to CloudWatch and from there, an SNS (Simple Notification Service) can be enabled to have automatic notifications. Additionally, Glue has some encryption features to keep data secure.

It's important to note that Glue is **serverless**, meaning it works according to a pay-as-you-go rule. You are priced based on the actual amount of resources used when running jobs, and not on some fixed amount of bandwidth or pre-purchased units of server space. This is extremely cost-effective.

### When Glue is not a good choice?

Glue should not be used for streaming data. It is batch oriented by definition and has a minimum interval of 5 minutes. Also, Glue does not support NoSQL databases (which makes perfect sense since they do not have a rigid schema for the Glue Crawler to find).